Compressions: Restore blood circulation
1. Put the person on his or her back on a firm surface.
2. Kneel next to the person's neck and shoulders.
3. Place the heel of one hand over the center of the person's chest, between the nipples. Place your other hand on top of the first hand. Keep your elbows straight and position your shoulders directly above your hands.
4. Use your upper body weight (not just your arms) as you push straight down on (compress) the chest at least 2 inches (approximately 5 centimeters) but not greater than 2.4 inches (approximately 6 centimeters). Push hard at a rate of 100 to 120 compressions a minute.
5. If you haven't been trained in CPR, continue chest compressions until there are signs of movement or until emergency medical personnel take over. If you have been trained in CPR, go on to opening the airway and rescue breathing.
Airway: Open the airway
* If you're trained in CPR and you've performed 30 chest compressions, open the person's airway using the head-tilt, chin-lift maneuver. Put your palm on the person's forehead and gently tilt the head back. Then with the other hand, gently lift the chin forward to open the airway.
Breathing: Breathe for the person
Rescue breathing can be mouth-to-mouth breathing or mouth-to-nose breathing if the mouth is seriously injured or can't be opened.
1. With the airway open (using the head-tilt, chin-lift maneuver), pinch the nostrils shut for mouth-to-mouth breathing and cover the person's mouth with yours, making a seal.
2. Prepare to give two rescue breaths. Give the first rescue breath — lasting one second — and watch to see if the chest rises. If it does rise, give the second breath. If the chest doesn't rise, repeat the head-tilt, chin-lift maneuver and then give the second breath. Thirty chest compressions followed by two rescue breaths is considered one cycle. Be careful not to provide too many breaths or to breathe with too much force.
3. Resume chest compressions to restore circulation.
4. As soon as an automated external defibrillator (AED) is available, apply it and follow the prompts. Administer one shock, then resume CPR — starting with chest compressions — for two more minutes before administering a second shock. If you're not trained to use an AED, a 911 or other emergency medical operator may be able to guide you in its use. If an AED isn't available, go to step 5 below.
5. Continue CPR until there are signs of movement or emergency medical personnel take over.
To perform CPR on a child
The procedure for giving CPR to a child age 1 through puberty is essentially the same as that for an adult. The American Heart Association also recommends the following to perform CPR on a child:
Compressions: Restore blood circulation
If you are alone and didn't see the child collapse, perform five cycles of compressions and breaths on the child — this should take about two minutes — before calling 911 or your local emergency number and getting the AED, if one is available.
If you're alone and you did see the child collapse, call 911 or your local emergency number and get the AED, if one is available, before beginning CPR. If another person is available, have that person call for help and get the AED while you begin CPR.
1. Put the child on his or her back on a firm surface.
2. Kneel next to the child's neck and shoulders.
3. Use two hands, or only one hand if the child is very small, to perform chest compressions. Press straight down on (compress) the chest about 2 inches (approximately 5 centimeters). If the child is an adolescent, push straight down on the chest at least 2 inches (approximately 5 centimeters) but not greater than 2.4 inches (approximately 6 centimeters). Push hard at a rate of 100 to 120 compressions a minute.
4. If you haven't been trained in CPR, continue chest compressions until there are signs of movement or until emergency medical personnel take over. If you have been trained in CPR, go on to opening the airway and rescue breathing.
Airway: Open the airway
* If you're trained in CPR and you've performed 30 chest compressions, open the child's airway using the head-tilt, chin-lift maneuver. Put your palm on the child's forehead and gently tilt the head back. Then with the other hand, gently lift the chin forward to open the airway.
Breathing: Breathe for the child
Use the same compression-breath rate that is used for adults: 30 compressions followed by two breaths. This is one cycle.
1. With the airway open (using the head-tilt, chin-lift maneuver), pinch the nostrils shut for mouth-to-mouth breathing and cover the child's mouth with yours, making a seal.
2. Prepare to give two rescue breaths. Give the first rescue breath — lasting one second — and watch to see if the chest rises. If it does rise, give the second breath. If the chest doesn't rise, repeat the head-tilt, chin-lift maneuver and then give the second breath. Be careful not to provide too many breaths or to breathe with too much force.
3. After the two breaths, immediately begin the next cycle of compressions and breaths. If there are two people performing CPR, conduct 15 compressions followed by two breaths.
4. As soon as an AED is available, apply it and follow the prompts. Use pediatric pads if available, for children up to age 8. If pediatric pads aren't available, use adult pads. Administer one shock, then resume CPR — starting with chest compressions — for two more minutes before administering a second shock. If you're not trained to use an AED, a 911 or other emergency medical operator may be able to guide you in its use.
Continue until the child moves or help arrives.
To perform CPR on a baby 4 weeks old and older
Most cardiac arrests in babies occur from lack of oxygen, such as from drowning or choking. If you know the baby has an airway obstruction, perform first aid for choking. If you don't know why the baby isn't breathing, perform CPR.
To begin, examine the situation. Stroke the baby and watch for a response, such as movement, but don't shake the baby.
If there's no response, follow the C-A-B procedures below for a baby under age 1 (except newborns, which includes babies up to 4 weeks old) and time the call for help as follows:
* If you're the only rescuer and you didn't see the baby collapse, do CPR for two minutes — about five cycles — before calling 911 or your local emergency number and getting the AED. If you did see the baby collapse, call 911 or your local emergency number and get the AED, if one is available, before beginning CPR.
* If another person is available, have that person call for help immediately and get the AED while you attend to the baby.
Compressions: Restore blood circulation
1. Place the baby on his or her back on a firm, flat surface, such as a table. The floor or ground also will do.
2. Imagine a horizontal line drawn between the baby's nipples. Place two fingers of one hand just below this line, in the center of the chest.
3. Gently compress the chest about 1.5 inches (about 4 centimeters).
4. Count aloud as you pump in a fairly rapid rhythm. You should pump at a rate of 100 to 120 compressions a minute.
Airway: Open the airway
* After 30 compressions, gently tip the head back by lifting the chin with one hand and pushing down on the forehead with the other hand.
Breathing: Breathe for the baby
1. Cover the baby's mouth and nose with your mouth.
2. Prepare to give two rescue breaths. Use the strength of your cheeks to deliver gentle puffs of air (instead of deep breaths from your lungs) to slowly breathe into the baby's mouth one time, taking one second for the breath. Watch to see if the baby's chest rises. If it does, give a second rescue breath. If the chest does not rise, repeat the head-tilt, chin-lift maneuver and then give the second breath.
3. If the baby's chest still doesn't rise, continue chest compressions.
4. Give two breaths after every 30 chest compressions. If two people are conducting CPR, give two breaths after every 15 chest compressions.
5. Perform CPR for about two minutes before calling for help unless someone else can make the call while you attend to the infant.
6. Continue CPR until you see signs of life or until medical personnel arrive.