If you are alone and didn't see the child collapse  perform five cycles of compressions and breaths on the child — this should take about two minutes — before calling 911 or your local emergency number and getting the AED  if one is available
if you are alone and you did see the child collapse  call 911 or your local emergency number and get the AED  if one is available  before beginning CPR. If another person is available  have that person call for help and get the AED while you begin CPR
Put the child on his or her back on a firm surface
Kneel next to the child's neck and shoulders
Use two hands  or only one hand if the child is very small to perform chest compressions
Press straight down on (compress) the chest about 2 inches (approximately 5 centimeters). If the child is an adolescent  push straight down on the chest at least 2 inches (approximately 5 centimeters) but not greater than 2.4 inches (approximately 6 centimeters). Push hard at a rate of 100 to 120 compressions a minute
Do 30 compressions followed by two breaths. This is one cycle
With the airway open (using the head-tilt  chin-lift maneuver)  pinch the nostrils shut for mouth-to-mouth breathing and cover the child's mouth with yours  making a seal
Prepare to give two rescue breaths. Give the first rescue breath — lasting one second — and watch to see if the chest rises. If it does rise  give the second breath. If the chest doesn't rise  repeat the head-tilt  chin-lift maneuver and then give the second breath. Be careful not to provide too many breaths or to breathe with too much force
After the two breaths  immediately begin the next cycle of compressions and breaths. If there are two people performing CPR  conduct 15 compressions followed by two breaths
As soon as an AED is available  apply it and follow the prompts. Use pediatric pads if available  for children up to age 8. If pediatric pads aren't available  use adult pads. Administer one shock  then resume CPR — starting with chest compressions — for two more minutes before administering a second shock
If you're not trained to use an AED  a 911 or other emergency medical operator may be able to guide you in its use
Continue until the child moves or help arrives
